Kafka client code examples (#753)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/platform/development/guide-nodejs.mdx

---
title: Node.js Code Example
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Node.js Code Example | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="How to produce to and consume from Redpanda using Node.js."/>
</head>

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

If you haven't already, install Node by following the appropriate steps for
your OS [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/).

> Redpanda is Kafka API-compatible, which means
> that although Redpanda is relatively new, you can leverage the countless client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redpanda is Kafka API-compatible, which means
that you can leverage the countless client
```

> libraries created for Kafka® (if you find something that is not supported,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
libraries created for Kafka (if you find something that is not supported,
```

reach out to our team on our <a href="https://redpanda.com/slack">Slack</a>).
In this example you will use [kafkajs](https://kafka.js.org/).

```bash
# Create and enter the project folder
mkdir redpanda-node
cd redpanda-node
# Generate package.json (use the default values)
npm init
# Install required dependencies
npm i -D typescript
npm i -D @types/node
npm i kafkajs
npm i uuid
npm i -D @types/uuid
# Generate tsconfig.json
tsc --init
```

## Set up a Redpanda environment

Follow the [Quickstarts](../../quickstart) to spin up a development
environment on your platform of choice.

:::caution
If you're running Redpanda on your laptop, or in a shared development
environment, then avoid Redpanda's optimized production settings. Running
`sudo rpk redpanda tune all` or manually configuring Redpanda for production
might affect your experience with other applications running on your machine.
:::

## Create a topic

The easiest way to create topics is using
[rpk](../reference/rpk/rpk-commands.mdx):

```bash
$ rpk topic create chat-room
TOPIC      STATUS
chat-room  OK
```

> This will create a topic named `chat-room`, with the default number of
> partitions and replicas. You can list all created topics with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command above created a topic named `chat-room`, with the default number of
partitions and replicas. You can list all created topics with:
```

```bash
$ rpk topic list
NAME       PARTITIONS  REPLICAS
chat-room  1           1
```

You can create topics programmatically too:

```javascript title="src/admin.ts"
import {Kafka} from "kafkajs"

const redpanda = new Kafka({
  brokers: ["localhost:9092"]
})
const admin = redpanda.admin()

export function createTopic(topic: string, partitions?: number, replicas?: number) {
  return admin.connect().then(() => {
    admin.createTopics({
      topics: [{
        topic: topic,
        numPartitions: partitions ? partitions : 1,
        replicationFactor: replicas ? replicas : 1,
      }]
    }).then(() => admin.disconnect())

>   })

Reviewer 2: We shouldn't use callbacks but async/await, similar to the other typescript samples. Using callbacks in JS/TS in 2022 is bad style imo.

Reviewer 2: The same applies to the other JS examples where `then()` is used.

Reviewer: @jrkinley I've completed final review and remaining updates. Ready to merge - do you want to go with @weeco 's suggestion here? If so, please rewrite this code example and let me know when complete. I will merge. Thx!

Reviewer: @weeco -
Guidance is that @jrkinley will circle back and make these updates in a future PR - it's more pressing that we get this update into the hands of customers now.

}
```

> Now that you have a cluster up and running, and a topic to store your data, you can 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have a cluster up and running, and a topic to store your data, you can 
```

> build a producer and consumer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
build a producer and consumer:
```

}
```

You now have a working producer that sends strings entered by the user to the 
`chat-room` topic. Messages are sent as JSON encoded strings here,
but keep in mind that the producer only sends buffers, so you can encode the
messages however you like.

## Consumer code

```javascript title="src/consumer.ts"
import {Kafka} from "kafkajs"
import {v4 as uuidv4} from "uuid"

const redpanda = new Kafka({
  brokers: ["localhost:9092"]
})
const consumer = redpanda.consumer({groupId: uuidv4()})

export function connect() {
  return consumer.connect().then(() =>
    consumer.subscribe({topic: "chat-room"}).then(() =>
      consumer.run({
        eachMessage: async ({topic, partition, message}) => {
          const formattedValue = JSON.parse((message.value as Buffer).toString())
          console.log(`${formattedValue.user}: ${formattedValue.message}`)
        },
      })
    )
  )
}

export function disconnect() {
  consumer.disconnect()
}
```

You now have a consumer that will read all messages from the `chat-room`
topic and print them to the console. You can start as many consumer groups as
you like, but bear in mind that each group will read a message only once, which is

> why the example is using a generated uuid for the group ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
why the example is using a generated UUID for the group ID.
```

> ## Putting everything together

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example brings all the preceding examples together: 
```
